Contribution guide to WCR sample (#416)
microsoft/WindowsAppSDK-Samples: Samples/WindowsCopilotRuntime/Contributing.md

# Contributing
This shows the project structure and how one can get started contributing to WCR sample.

## Project Structure

The project follows the MVVM (Model-View-ViewModel) pattern. Here's how the code is organized:

- **Models**: Contains the data models used in the application.
  - `Models/ImageDescriptionModel.cs`
  - `Models/ImageObjectExtractorModel.cs`
- **ViewModels**: Contains the view models that handle the business logic and data binding for the views.
  - `ViewModels/ImageDescriptionViewModel.cs`
  - `ViewModels/mageObjectExtractorViewModel.cs`
- **Pages**: Contains the XAML pages and their code-behind files. It is the *View* of MVVM structure.
  - `Pages/ImageDescriptionPage.xaml`

>   - `Views/ImageDescriptionPage.xaml.cs`

Reviewer: Views->Pages?

  - `Control` contains user control for showing creating Session and example source codes
  - `CodeBlockControl.xaml` and `CodeBlockControl.xaml.cs` have user control to show example source code and each page intiailiazes it with code from `Example` folder.
  - `ModelInitializationControl.xaml` and `ModelInitializationControl.xaml.cs` have user control to create session for every page. Each page sets `CreateModelSessionWithProgress` as `ICommand` to button in this control. 
- 
## Adding a New Page
Any of the examples like `ImageScaler`, `ImageDescriptionModel` can be as reference for adding newer pages. `LanguageModel` is slightly different as it has multiple effects in the sample page. 

## AsyncCommand and Its Inherited Class

In this project, we use `AsyncCommand` to handle asynchronous operations in the view models. `AsyncCommand` is a custom implementation of `ICommand` that supports asynchronous execution.

### AsyncCommand

Here's an example of how to use `AsyncCommand`:

```csharp
using System.Threading.Tasks;
using System.Windows.Input;
using Microsoft.Maui.Controls;

namespace YourNamespace.ViewModels
{
    public class AsyncCommandViewModel : BaseViewModel
    {

>         public ICommand LoadDataCommand { get; }

Reviewer 2: Can the initialization be inlined with the property definition?

```csharp
public ICommand LoadDataCommand { get; } = new AsyncCommand(OnLoadDataExecution);
```

Author: I decided to go for a real example which is easier to explain and reference

        public AsyncCommandViewModel()
        {
            LoadDataCommand = new AsyncCommand(OnLoadDataExecuted);
        }

        private async Task OnLoadDataExecuted()
        {
            // Asynchronous command execution logic

>             await Task.Delay(1000); // Simulate a delay

Reviewer: nit: 1000: define it as a constant?

        }
    }
}
```

In this example, `LoadDataCommand` is an instance of `AsyncCommand` that executes the `OnLoadDataExecuted` method asynchronously.

### AsyncCommandWithProgress

`AsyncCommandWithProgress` is an inherited class from `AsyncCommand` that supports progress reporting during the asynchronous operation.

Here's an example of how to use `AsyncCommandWithProgress`:

```csharp
using System;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
using System.Windows.Input;
using Microsoft.Maui.Controls;

namespace YourNamespace.ViewModels
{
    public class AsyncCommandWithProgressViewModel : BaseViewModel
    {
        public ICommand LoadDataWithProgressCommand { get; }
        public int Progress { get; private set; }

        public AsyncCommandWithProgressViewModel()
        {

>             LoadDataWithProgressCommand = new AsyncCommandWithProgress<int>(OnLoadDataWithProgressExecuted, OnProgressChanged);

Reviewer 2: See comment above in other example.

# Contributing

This shows the project structure and how one can get started contributing to Windows Copilot Runtime (WCR) sample.

## Project Structure

The project follows the MVVM (Model-View-ViewModel) pattern. Here's how the code is organized:

- **Models**: Contains the data models used in the application.
  - `cs-winui/Models/ImageDescriptionModel.cs`
  - `cs-winui/Models/ImageObjectExtractorModel.cs`
- **ViewModels**: Contains the view models that handle the business logic and data binding for the views.
  - `cs-winui/ViewModels/ImageDescriptionViewModel.cs`
  - `cs-winui/ViewModels/mageObjectExtractorViewModel.cs`
- **Pages**: Contains the XAML pages and their code-behind files. They represent the `Views` part of MVVM.
  - `cs-winui/Pages/ImageDescriptionPage.xaml`
  - `cs-winui/Pages/ImageDescriptionPage.xaml.cs`
  - `cs-winui/Pages/ImageObjectExtractorPage.xaml`
  - `cs-winui/Pages/ImageObjectExtractorPage.xaml.cs`

> - **Helpers**: Util, Converters and Controls folders contain common shared code used by all the pages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Helpers**: The Util, Converters and Controls folders contain common shared code used by all the pages
```

Minor: missing article

>   - `Controls` folder contains user controls for showing creating Session and example source codes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The `Controls` folder contains user controls for showing creating Session and example source codes
```

Minor: missing article

>   - `CodeBlockControl.xaml` and `CodeBlockControl.xaml.cs` are parts of user control which shows example source code for each api. The example code is fetched from `Examples` folder.

Reviewer 2: Minor: I feel like a word or two is missing, but I'm not sure where.

"... are parts of users control**s** which show (no 's')"?
"... are part of **a** user control which shows"?

Author: we can ignore grammatical parts as long as they are clear enough for the user

>   - `CodeBlockControl.xaml` and `CodeBlockControl.xaml.cs` are parts of user control which shows example source code for each api. The example code is fetched from `Examples` folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `CodeBlockControl.xaml` and `CodeBlockControl.xaml.cs` are parts of user control which shows example source code for each API. The example code is fetched from the `Examples` folder.
```

>   - `ModelInitializationControl.xaml` and `ModelInitializationControl.xaml.cs` have user control to create session for every page. Each page sets `CreateModelSessionWithProgress` as `ICommand` to button in this control. 

Reviewer 2: Minor: how many user controls are there? One or many? There's either a missing word or a missing 's':

```suggestion
  - `ModelInitializationControl.xaml` and `ModelInitializationControl.xaml.cs` have a user control to create session for every page. Each page sets `CreateModelSessionWithProgress` as `ICommand` to button in this control. 
```

```suggestion
  - `ModelInitializationControl.xaml` and `ModelInitializationControl.xaml.cs` have user controls to create session for every page. Each page sets `CreateModelSessionWithProgress` as `ICommand` to button in this control. 
```

Author: since .xaml and .xaml.cs both are part of a single control, the rules of grammar have to bend a little to accomodate that. The original looks correct.

>   - `ModelInitializationControl.xaml` and `ModelInitializationControl.xaml.cs` have user control to create session for every page. Each page sets `CreateModelSessionWithProgress` as `ICommand` to button in this control. 

Reviewer 2: I'm having trouble parsing "Each page sets `CreateModelSessionWithProgress` as `ICommand` to button in this control." Can you rephrase?

Issues I'm having:

* Should it be "sets `CreateModelSessionWithProgress` to an instance of `ICommand`?" I don't se how you can set a `CreateModelSessionWithProgress` to a _type_.
* "to button in this control": is this linked to the `ICommand` somehow?

  
## Adding a New Page

> Any of the examples like `ImageScaler` or `ImageDescriptionModel` can be as reference for adding newer pages. `LanguageModel` is slightly different as it has multiple effects in the sample page. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any of the examples like `ImageScaler` or `ImageDescriptionModel` can be used as reference for adding newer pages. `LanguageModel` is slightly different as it has multiple effects in the sample page. 
```

Minor: missing a word

## AsyncCommand and Its Inherited Class

In this project, we use `AsyncCommand` to handle asynchronous operations in the view models. `AsyncCommand` is a custom implementation of `ICommand` that supports asynchronous execution.

### AsyncCommand

Here's an example of how to use `AsyncCommand`:

```csharp

> ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// ...
```

Minor: mark this as a comment or omit it so that the syntax highlighting doesn't get messed up. Similar comment elsewhere that "..." is used.

    public ICommand ScaleCommand => _scaleSoftwareBitmapCommand;

>     private readonly AsyncCommand<(SoftwareBitmap, int, int), SoftwareBitmapSource> _scaleSoftwareBitmapCommand;

Reviewer 2: Does the member `_scaleSoftwareBitmapCommand` need to exist? Would something like this work?

```csharp
public ICommand ScaleCommand { get; } = new AsyncCommand(async _ => { ... });
```

Or, if this can't be initialized directly inline with the property, the ctor could set it:

```csharp
public ICommand ScaleCommand { get; private set; }

public ImageScalerViewModel(ImageScalerModel imageScalerSession)
: base(imageScalerSession)
{
    ScaleCommand = new AsyncCommand(/*...*/);
}
```
```

Author: It can. I am directly referencing an already existing file's code so not doing any changes from that.  That would easier for user to follow

    public ImageScalerViewModel(ImageScalerModel imageScalerSession)
    : base(imageScalerSession)
    {
        _scaleSoftwareBitmapCommand = new(

>             async _ =>

Reviewer 2: Consider having an example that uses all the input values to demonstrate how they help glue the various parts of the app together.

            {
                var height = (int)(Input!.PixelHeight * Factor);
                var width = (int)(Input!.PixelWidth * Factor);
                var outputBitmap = Session.ScaleSoftwareBitmap(Input!, width, height);
                ...
            },
            (_) => IsAvailable && Input is not null);
    }

...

```

> Here, our code needs to call `ImageScalerModel.ScaleSoftwareBitmap(SoftwareBitmap inputImage, int, int)` from the view model's Scale Image button (refer [`ImageScalerPage.xaml`](./cs-winui/Pages/ImageScalerPage.xaml)). We bind it to `ICommand ScaleCommand` which gets instantiated to `AsyncCommand` (inherited from `ICommand`) and calls `ScaleSoftwareBitmap` like above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, our code needs to call `ImageScalerModel.ScaleSoftwareBitmap(SoftwareBitmap inputImage, int, int)` from the view model's Scale Image button (refer to [`ImageScalerPage.xaml`](./cs-winui/Pages/ImageScalerPage.xaml)). We set the `ScaleCommand` property to an `AsyncCommand` that calls `ScaleSoftwareBitmap`. `AsyncCommand` implements `ICommand` so this assignment works.
```

Minor: copy edit suggestions

> The `ICommand` is enabled only when Input image is loaded and session is created, denoted by Image and IsAvailable respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ICommand` is enabled only when the Input image is loaded and the session is created, denoted by Image and IsAvailable respectively.
```

Minor: copy edits

### AsyncCommandWithProgress

> `AsyncCommandWithProgress` is an inherited class from `AsyncCommand` that supports receiving response in a progressive manner, few tokens at a time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`AsyncCommandWithProgress` inherits from `AsyncCommand` and supports receiving response in a progressive manner, a few tokens at a time.
```

Minor: copy edits

Is "token" this right word here? Do all the APIs use the term token for their output?

Author: AsyncCommandWithProgress is only used in Language Model, so token is all right.

Here's an example of how to use `AsyncCommandWithProgress`:

```csharp
...
    private readonly AsyncCommandWithProgress<string, LanguageModelResponse, string> _generateResponseWithProgressCommand;
    private readonly StringBuilder _responseProgress = new();

    // GenerateResponseWithProgress
    _generateResponseWithProgressCommand = new(
        prompt =>
        {
            _responseProgress.Clear();
            DispatchPropertyChanged(nameof(ResponseProgress));

            return Session.GenerateResponseWithProgressAsync(prompt!);
        },
        (prompt) => IsAvailable && !string.IsNullOrEmpty(prompt));

    _generateResponseWithProgressCommand.ResultProgressHandler += OnResultProgress;
    _generateResponseWithProgressCommand.ResultHandler += OnResult;
...
```

> Similar to `AsyncCommand`, `AsyncCommandWithProgress` inherits from ICommand and calls model's apis. It does provide two event handlers `ResultProgressHandler` and `ResultHandler`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to `AsyncCommand`, `AsyncCommandWithProgress` implements `ICommand` and calls model APIs. It provides two event handlers, `ResultProgressHandler` and `ResultHandler`.
```

Minor: copy edit suggestions.
